= PKCS #11/Ruby Interface

* Homepage: http://github.com/larskanis/pkcs11
* API documentation: http://pkcs11.rubyforge.org/pkcs11/

This module allows Ruby programs to interface with "RSA Security Inc.
PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface (Cryptoki)".
PKCS #11 is the de-facto standard to access cryptographic devices.
You must have the PKCS #11 v2.20 implementation library installed in
order to use this module. Tested implementations of PKCS#11 librarys
include:
* OpenSC[http://www.opensc-project.org] supported Smart Cards
* Safenet[http://www.safenet-inc.com] - Protect Server HSMs
* Mozilla_Soft_Token[https://developer.mozilla.org/en/PKCS11] which comes with every firefox installation

This module works on the Unix like operating systems and win32.

== Installation

  gem install pkcs11


== Usage
Cryptoki has a reputation to be complicated to implement and use.
While this seems to be true for C it shouldn't for Ruby.

{PKCS11.open} opens a PKCS#11 Unix *.so file or Windows-DLL. It requires
a suitable PKCS #11 implementation.

  require "rubygems"
  require "pkcs11"
  include PKCS11

  pkcs11 = PKCS11.open("/path/to/pkcs11.so")
  p pkcs11.info
  session = pkcs11.active_slots.first.open
  session.login(:USER, "1234")
  # ... crypto operations
  session.logout
  session.close

This opens a {PKCS11::Session} to the first active slot of the device.
A {PKCS11::Session} can be used for all cryptographic operations
on the device.

Detail information for the API specification is provided by RSA Security Inc.
Please refer the URL: http://www.rsa.com/rsalabs/node.asp?id=2133.

Further examples could be found in the unit tests of the <tt>test</tt>
directory of the project or gem.



== Cross compiling for mswin32

Using rake-compiler a cross compiled pkcs11-gem can be build on a linux host for
the win32 platform. There are no runtime dependencies to any but the standard Windows DLLs.

Install mingw32. On a debian based system this should work:

  apt-get install mingw32

On MacOS X, if you have MacPorts installed:

  port install i386-mingw32-gcc

Install the rake-compiler:

  gem install rake-compiler

Download and cross compile ruby for win32:

  rake-compiler cross-ruby VERSION=1.8.6-p287

Download and cross compile pkcs11 for win32:

  rake cross native gem

If everything works, there should be pkcs11-VERSION-x86-mswin32.gem in the pkg
directory.


== ToDo

* unit testing (with mozilla softoken)
* implement all functions/structs
* sample code

== Development Status

  STATE   FUNCTION               NOTE
  ------  ---------------------  ----------------------------------------
  DONE    C_Initialize
  DONE    C_Finalize
  DONE    C_GetInfo
  DONE    C_GetFunctionList
  DONE    C_GetSlotList
  DONE    C_GetSlotInfo
  DONE    C_GetTokenInfo
  DONE    C_GetMechanismList
  DONE    C_GetMechanismInfo
  DONE    C_InitToken
  DONE    C_InitPIN
  DONE    C_SetPIN
  DONE    C_OpenSession
  DONE    C_CloseSession
  DONE    C_CloseAllSessions
  DONE    C_GetSessionInfo
  DONE    C_GetOperationState
  DONE    C_SetOperationState
  DONE    C_Login
  DONE    C_Logout
  DONE    C_CreateObject
  DONE    C_CopyObject
  DONE    C_DestroyObject
  DONE    C_GetObjectSize
  DONE    C_GetAttributeValue
  DONE    C_SetAttributeValue
  DONE    C_FindObjectsInit
  DONE    C_FindObjects
  DONE    C_FindObjectsFinal
  DONE    C_EncryptInit
  DONE    C_Encrypt
  DONE    C_EncryptUpdate
  DONE    C_EncryptFinal
  DONE    C_DecryptInit
  DONE    C_Decrypt
  DONE    C_DecryptUpdate
  DONE    C_DecryptFinal
  DONE    C_DigestInit
  DONE    C_Digest
  DONE    C_DigestUpdate
  DONE    C_DigestKey
  DONE    C_DigestFinal
  DONE    C_SignInit
  DONE    C_Sign
  DONE    C_SignUpdate
  DONE    C_SignFinal
  DONE    C_SignRecoverInit
  DONE    C_SignRecover
  DONE    C_VerifyInit
  DONE    C_Verify
  DONE    C_VerifyUpdate
  DONE    C_VerifyFinal
  DONE    C_VerifyRecoverInit
  DONE    C_VerifyRecover
  DONE    C_DigestEncryptUpdate
  DONE    C_DecryptDigestUpdate
  DONE    C_SignEncryptUpdate
  DONE    C_DecryptVerifyUpdate
  DONE    C_GenerateKey
  DONE    C_GenerateKeyPair
  DONE    C_WrapKey
  DONE    C_UnwrapKey
  DONE    C_DeriveKey
  DONE    C_SeedRandom
  DONE    C_GenerateRandom
  N/A     C_GetFunctionStatus    legacy function
  N/A     C_CancelFunction       legacy function
  DONE    C_WaitForSlotEvent
