= PKCS #11/Ruby Interface for Safenet Luna HSM

home :: http://github.com/larskanis/pkcs11
API documentation :: http://pkcs11.rubyforge.org/pkcs11/
Safenet Luna HSM :: http://www.safenet-inc.com

This ruby gem is an add-on to ruby-pkcs11[http://github.com/larskanis/pkcs11] .
It allows to use Luna specific extensions, which are beyond the PKCS#11 standard.
The module works on the Unix like operating systems and win32.

== Requirements

* Luna Client installed including the Luna Sofware Development Kit (SDK)
* pkcs11 gem installed (use: <tt>gem install pkcs11</tt> )

== Installation

First check the permissions for the directories in the sdk.  It may be required to run:
  chmod a+x <luna client include dir>
  chmod a+x <luna client include dir>/RSA

  gem install pkcs11_luna -- --with-luna-dir-include=<luna client include dir>

This installs the Luna-PKCS#11 extension either by compiling (Unix)
or by using the precompiled gem for Win32.

  git clone git://github.com/larskanis/pkcs11.git
  cd pkcs11_luna
  gem install hoe rake-compiler minitest
  rake gem LUNA_INCLUDE_DIR=<luna client include dir>
  gem install --verbose  pkg/pkcs11_luna-<version>.gem -- --with-luna-dir-include=<luna client include dir>
  
  rake test
  cd ../
  rake test

Downloads and installs the gem from git source.  If LUNA_INCLUDE_DIR and --with-luna-dir-include are not specified,
  The default of /usr/safenet/lunaclient/samples/include is used.
  

== Usage

Open the software emulation library and login to a session:

  require "rubygems"
  require "pkcs11_luna"

  pkcs11 = PKCS11::Luna::Library.new
  p pkcs11.info
  session = pkcs11.active_slots.last.open
  session.login(:USER, "1234")
  # ... crypto operations
  session.logout
  session.close
  
  Look in the examples directories for some more usage examples.

{PKCS11::Luna::Library#initialize} reads the crystoki.ini or /etc/Chrystoki.conf
and parses the configuration file to determine what .so or .dll to use.  You may pass 
the full path to the .dll or .so file.

== Cross compiling for mswin32

Using rake-compiler a cross compiled pkcs11_luna.gem can be build on a linux host for
the win32 platform. There are no runtime dependencies to any but the standard Windows DLLs.

Install mingw32. On a debian based system this should work:

  apt-get install mingw32

On MacOS X, if you have MacPorts installed:

  port install i386-mingw32-gcc

Install the rake-compiler:

  gem install rake-compiler

Download and cross compile ruby for win32:

  rake-compiler cross-ruby VERSION=1.8.7-p352
  rake-compiler cross-ruby VERSION=1.9.2-p290

Download and cross compile pkcs11_luna for win32:

  rake cross native gem LUNA_CLIENT_DIR=<luna client dir>

If everything works, there should be pkcs11_luna-VERSION-x86-mswin32.gem in the pkg
directory.


== ToDo

* implement Luna specific function calls
* implement possibility to use callbacks
* add all structs and constants

== Authors
* Lars Kanis <kanis@comcard.de>
* Jonathan Patchell

== Copying
See MIT-LICENSE included in the package.
