= PKCS #11/Ruby Interface for Safenet Protect Server HSM

home :: http://github.com/larskanis/pkcs11
API documentation: http://pkcs11.rubyforge.org/pkcs11/
Safenet Protect Server HSM : http://www.safenet-inc.com

This ruby gem is an add-on to ruby-pkcs11[http://github.com/larskanis/pkcs11] .
It allowes to use Protect Server specific extensions, which are beyond the PKCS#11 standard.
That means CKA_EXPORT, CKM_DES3_DERIVE_CBC, structs like CK_DES3_CBC_PARAMS, special functions and so on.
The module works on the Unix like operating systems and win32.

== Requirements

* ProtectServer PTKC-SDK to compile the module
* pkcs11 gem installed (use: <tt>gem install pkcs11</tt> )

== Installation

  gem install pkcs11_protect_server -- --with-protect-server-sdk-dir=/path/to/ETcpsdk

This installs the ProtectServer-PKCS#11 extension along with pkcs11-gem either by compiling (Unix)
or by using the precompiled gem for Win32.

  git clone git://github.com/larskanis/pkcs11.git
  cd pkcs11_protect_server
  rake gem PROTECT_SERVER_SDK_DIR=/path/to/ETcpsdk
  gem install -l pkg/pkcs11_protect_server -- --with-protect-server-sdk-dir=/path/to/ETcpsdk

Downloads and installs the gem from git source.

== Usage

Open the software emulation library and login to a session:

  require "rubygems"
  require "pkcs11_protect_server"

  pkcs11 = PKCS11::ProtectServer::Library.new(:sw)
  p pkcs11.info
  session = pkcs11.active_slots.last.open
  session.login(:USER, "1234")
  # ... crypto operations
  session.logout
  session.close

{PKCS11::ProtectServer::Library#initialize} tries to find the library file in
the standard installation directory on Windows or Linux.

== Cross compiling for mswin32

Using rake-compiler a cross compiled pkcs11_protect_server.gem can be build on a linux host for
the win32 platform. There are no runtime dependencies to any but the standard Windows DLLs.

Install mingw32. On a debian based system this should work:

  apt-get install mingw32

On MacOS X, if you have MacPorts installed:

  port install i386-mingw32-gcc

Install the rake-compiler:

  gem install rake-compiler

Download and cross compile ruby for win32:

  rake-compiler cross-ruby VERSION=1.8.7-p352
  rake-compiler cross-ruby VERSION=1.9.2-p290

Download and cross compile pkcs11_protect_server for win32:

  rake cross native gem PROTECT_SERVER_SDK_DIR=/path/to/ETcpsdk

If everything works, there should be pkcs11_protect_server-VERSION-x86-mswin32.gem in the pkg
directory.


== ToDo

* implement ProtectServer specific function calls
* implement possibility to use callbacks
* add all structs and constants

== Authors
* Lars Kanis <kanis@comcard.de>

== Copying
See MIT-LICENSE included in the package.
